This material is Open Game Content, and is licensed for public use under the terms of the Open Game License v1.0a.
SPELLS

Hit Dice: The term “Hit Dice” is used synonymously with “character levels” for effects that affect a number of Hit Dice of creatures. A creature with only Hit Dice from its species, not from any classes it may have, has a character level equal to its Hit Dice. A creature with class levels is considered to have Hit Dice equal to the total of its Hit Dice and its class levels.
Caster Level: A spell’s power often depends on caster level, which is the caster’s level in the appropriate spellcasting class. Creatures with no classes have a caster level equal to their Hit Dice unless otherwise specified.
Creatures and Characters: “Creatures” and “characters” are used synonymously in the spell descriptions.
List Format: Spells in the following lists are presented in order of spell level (from lowest to highest) and alphabetized within each level group. A brief description of the spell’s effect is provided.

Arcane Spells

0-Level Mage Spells
Daze: Subject takes no actions for 1 round.
Detect Magical Aura: Detects spells and magic items within 60 ft.
Light: Object shines like a torch.
Mage Hand: 5-pound telekinesis.
Message: Whispered conversation at distance.
Prestidigitation: Perform minor tricks.
Read Magic: Read scrolls, spellbooks, and magical writing.
Resistance: Subject gains +1 on saving throws.

1st-level Mage Spells
Burning Hands: 1d4 fire damage/level (max 5d4).
Cause Fear: One creature flees for 1d4 rounds.
Change Self: Changes your appearance.
Comprehend Languages: Understands all spoken and written languages.
Feather Fall: Objects or creatures fall slowly.
Hold Portal: Holds door shut.
Jump: Subject gets bonus on Jump checks.
Mage Armor: Gives subject +4 Defense bonus.
Magic Missile: 1d4+1 damage; +1 missile/two levels above 1st (max 5).
Magic Weapon: Weapon gains +1 bonus.
Power Device: Powers one inoperative electrical or mechanical device.
Ray of Fatigue: Ray fatigues target.
Shield: Invisible disc gives cover, blocks magic missiles.
Sleep: Put 2d4 HD of creatures into comatose slumber.
True Strike: Adds +20 bonus to your next attack roll.

2nd-Level Mage Spells
Arcane Lock: Magically locks a portal or chest.
Blur: Attacks miss subject 20% of the time.
Darkvision: See 60 ft: in total darkness.
Enhance Ability: Subject gains +5 bonus to one ability score for 1 min./Level: 
Glitterdust: Blinds creatures, outlines invisible creatures.
Invisibility: Subject is invisible for 10 min./level or until it attacks.
Knock: Opens locked or magically sealed door.
Levitate: Subject moves up and down at your direction.
Locate Object: Senses direction toward object (specific or type).
Magic Mouth: Speaks once when triggered.
Protection from Arrows/Bullets: Subject immune to most ranged attacks.
Resist Energy: Ignores 10 points of damage/round from one energy type.
See Invisibility: Reveals invisible creatures or objects.
Spider Climb: Grants ability to travel on walls and ceilings.
Web: Fills 20-ft.-radius spread with sticky spider webs.

3rd-level Mage Spells
Dispel Magic: Cancels magical spells and effects.
Displacement: Attacks miss subject 50% of the time.
Fireball: 1d6 damage per level, 20-ft: radius.
Flaming Projectiles: Projectiles deal +1d6 fire damage.
Greater Magic Weapon: +1/three levels (max +5).
Halt Undead: Immobilizes undead for 1 round/level.
Haste: Extra attack action, additional move, and +2 Defense.
Hold Person: Holds one person helpless; 1 round/level.
Invisibility Sphere: Makes everyone within 10 ft: invisible.
Keen Edge: Doubles normal weapon’s threat range.
Lightning Bolt: Electricity deals 1d6 damage/level.
Slow: One subject/level may only move or attack; –2 to Defense, –2 on melee attack and damage rolls, –2 on Reflex saves.
Tongues: Speak any language.
Water Breathing: Subjects can breathe underwater.

4th-level Mage Spells
Animate Dead: Creates undead skeletons and zombies.
Arcane Eye: Invisible floating eye moves 30 ft./round.
Bestow Curse: –6 to an ability; –4 on attacks, saves, and checks; or 50% chance of taking no action.
Confusion: Makes subject behave oddly for 1 round/Level: 
Dimension Door: Teleports you and up to 50 lb./level.
Energy Trap: Opened object deals 1d4 +1/level damage of given energy type.
Fear: Subjects within cone flee for 1 round/level.
Ice Storm: Hail deals 5d6 damage in cylinder 40 ft: across: 
Minor Globe of Invulnerability: Stops 1st- through 3rd-level spell effects.
Remove Curse: Frees object or person from curse.
Shout: Deafens all within cone and deals 2d6 damage.
Stoneskin: Stops blows, cuts, stabs, and slashes.
Wall of Fire: Deals 2d4 fire damage out to 10 ft: and 1d4 out to 20 ft: Passing through wall deals 2d6 +1/level.
Wall of Ice: Ice plane creates wall with 15 hp +1/level, or hemisphere can trap creatures inside.

5th-level Mage Spells
Cloudkill: Kills 3 HD or less; 4–6 HD save or die.
Cone of Cold: 1d6 cold damage/level.
Hold Monster: As hold person, but any creature.
Passwall: Breaches walls 1 ft: thick/level.
Phantom Watchdog: Spectral dog can guard or attack.
Telekinesis: Lifts or moves 25 lb./level at long range.
Wall of Force: Wall is immune to damage.
Wall of Iron: 30 hp/four levels; can topple onto foes.
Wall of Stone: Creates a stone wall that can be shaped.

Divine Spells

0-Level Acolyte Spells
Create Water: Creates 2 gallons/level of pure water.
Cure Minor Wounds: Cures 1 point of damage.
Detect Magical Aura: Detects spells, magic items within 60 ft.
Inflict Minor Wounds: Touch attack, 1 point of damage.
Light: Object shines like a torch.
Read Magic: Read scrolls and magical writing.
Resistance: Subject gains +1 on saving throws.
Virtue: Subject gains 1 temporary hp.

1st-level Acolyte Spells
Bane: Enemies suffer –1 attack, –1 on saves against fear.
Bless: Allies gain +1 attack and +1 on saves against fear.
Cause Fear: One creature flees for 1d4 rounds.
Command: One subject obeys one-word command for 1 round.
Comprehend Languages: Understand all spoken and written languages.
Cure Light Wounds: Cures 1d8 +1/level damage (max +5).
Inflict Light Wounds: Touch, 1d8 +1/level damage (max +5).
Magic Weapon: Weapon gains +1 bonus.
Remove Fear: +4 on saves against fear for one subject + one additional subject/four levels.
Shield of Faith: Aura grants +2 or higher deflection bonus.

2nd-Level Acolyte Spells
Aid: +1 attack, +1 on saves against fear, 1d8 temporary hit points.
Augury: Learn whether an action will be good or bad.
Cure Moderate Wounds: Cures 2d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
Delay Poison: Stops poison from harming subject for 1 hour/level.
Enhance Ability: Subject gains +5 bonus to one ability score for 1 min./level.
Hold Person: Holds one person helpless; 1 round/level.
Inflict Moderate Wounds: Touch attack, 2d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
Lesser Restoration: Dispels magic ability penalty or repairs 1d4 ability damage.
Remove Paralysis: Frees one or more creatures from paralysis, hold, or slow.
Resist Energy: Ignores 10 points of damage/round from one energy type.
Shatter: Sonic vibration damages objects or crystalline creatures.
Silence: Negates sound in 15-ft: radius.
Spider Climb: Grants ability to travel on walls and ceilings.
Zone of Truth: Subjects within range cannot lie.

3rd-level Acolyte Spells
Animate Dead: Creates undead skeletons and zombies.
Bestow Curse: –6 to an ability; –4 on attacks, saves, and checks; or 50% chance of losing each action.
Cure Serious Wounds: Cures 3d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
Dispel Magic: Cancels magical spells and effects.
Glyph of Warding: Inscription harms those who pass it.
Inflict Serious Wounds: Touch attack, 3d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
Locate Object: Senses direction toward object (specific or type).
Prayer: Allies gain +1 on most rolls, and enemies suffer –1.
Remove Curse: Frees object or person from curse.
Remove Disease: Cures all diseases affecting subject.
Searing Light: Ray deals 1d8/two levels, more against undead.
Status: Monitors condition and position of one ally per 3 caster levels.
Water Breathing: Subjects can breathe underwater.

4th-level Acolyte Spells
Cure Critical Wounds: Cures 4d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
Discern Lies: Reveals deliberate falsehoods.
Faith’s Fury: Damages and blinds creatures with a specific allegiance.
Freedom of Movement: Subject moves normally despite impediments.
Greater Magic Weapon: +1 bonus/three levels (max +5).
Inflict Critical Wounds: Touch attack, 4d8 +1/level damage (max +10).
Neutralize Poison: Detoxifies venom in or on subject.
Restoration: Restores level and ability score drains.
Tongues: Speak any language.

5th-level Acolyte Spells
Break Enchantment: Frees subjects from enchantments, alterations, curses, and petrification.
Flaming Wrath: Smites foes with fire (1d6/level).
Greater Command: As command, but affects one subject/level.
Insect Plague: Insect horde limits vision, inflicts damage, and weak creatures flee.
Mass Cure Light Wounds: Cures 1d8 +1/level damage for many creatures.
Mass Inflict Light Wounds: Deals 1d8 +1/level damage to many creatures.
Raise Dead: Restores life to subject who died up to 1 day/level ago.
True Seeing: See all things as they really are.
Wall of Stone: Creates a stone wall that can be shaped: Cures 4d8 +1/level damage (max +10).

Spell Descriptions
The spells herein are presented in alphabetical order.

Aid
Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
Level: Acolyte 2; Components: V, S, DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Living creature touched; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
Aid grants the target a +1 morale bonus on attack rolls and saves against fear effects, plus a number of temporary hit points equal to 1d8 +1 per caster level (maximum 1d8+10 temporary hit points).

Animate Dead
Necromancy [Evil]
Level: Acolyte 3, Mage 4; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Targets: One or more corpses touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
This spell turns the bones or bodies of dead creatures into undead skeletons or zombies that follow the caster’s spoken commands. The skeletons or zombies can follow the caster, or can remain in an area and attack any creature (or just a specific type of creature) entering the place. The undead remain animated until they are destroyed. (A destroyed skeleton or zombie can’t be animated again.)
Regardless of the type of undead, a caster can’t create more HD of undead than twice his or her caster level with a single casting of animate dead.
The undead created remain under caster’s control indefinitely. No matter how many times the caster uses this spell, however, he or she can control only 4 HD worth of undead creatures per caster level. If the caster exceeds this number, all the newly created creatures fall under his or her control, and any excess undead from previous castings become uncontrolled (the caster chooses which creatures are released). Any undead the character commands (if the character has the ability to command or rebuke undead) do not count toward the limit.
Skeletons: A skeleton can be created only from a mostly intact corpse or skeleton; the corpse must have bones. If a skeleton is made from a corpse, the flesh falls off the bones. The statistics for a skeleton depend on its size; they do not depend on what abilities the creature may have had while alive.
Zombies: A zombie can be created only from a mostly intact corpse; the creature must have a true anatomy. The statistics for a zombie depend on its size, not on what abilities the creature may have had while alive.
Material Component: Purchase DC 15 + 1 per 2 HD of the undead.

Arcane Eye
Divination
Level: Mage 4; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: 10 minutes; Range: Unlimited; Effect: Magical sensor; Duration: 1 minute/level (D); Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
The caster creates an invisible magical sensor that sends him or her visual information. The caster can create the arcane eye at any point he or she can see, but it can then travel outside the caster’s line of sight without hindrance. The arcane eye travels 30 feet per round (300 feet per minute) if viewing an area ahead primarily looking at the floor or 10 feet per round (100 feet per minute) if examining the ceiling and walls as well as the floor ahead. The arcane eye sees exactly as the caster would see if he or she were there. The arcane eye can travel in any direction as long as the spell lasts. Solid barriers prevent the passage of an arcane eye, although it can pass through a space no smaller than 1 inch in diameter.
The caster must concentrate to use the eye. If the caster does not concentrate, the eye is inert until the caster again concentrates.

Arcane Lock
Abjuration
Level: Mage 2; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: One door, cabinet, chest, or portal touched, up to 30 sq. ft./level in size; Duration: Permanent; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
An arcane lock spell cast upon a door, cabinet, chest, or portal magically locks it. The caster can freely pass his or her own lock without affecting it; otherwise, a door or object secured with arcane lock can be opened only by breaking in or by a successful dispel magic or knock spell. Add +10 to the normal DC to break open a door or portal affected by this spell. Note that a knock spell does not remove an arcane lock. It only suppresses it for 10 minutes.
Material Component: Purchase DC 15.

Augury
Divination
Level: Acolyte 2; Components: V, S, F; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Personal; Target: You; Duration: Instantaneous
An augury can tell the caster whether a particular action will bring good or bad results for him or her in the immediate future. 
The base chance for receiving a meaningful reply is 70% + 1% per caster level; the GM makes the roll secretly. The GM may determine that the question is so straightforward that a successful result is automatic, or so vague as to have no chance of success. If the augury succeeds, the caster gets one of four results:
“Weal” (if the action will probably bring good results).
“Woe” (for bad results).
“Weal and woe” (for both).
“Nothing” (for actions that don’t have especially good or bad results).
If the spell fails, the caster gets the “nothing” result. A divine caster who gets the “nothing” result has no way to tell whether it was the consequence of a failed or successful augury.
The augury can see into the future only about half an hour, so anything that might happen after that does not affect the augury.  All augury spells cast by the same person about the same topic use the same result as the first augury.

Bane
Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
Level: Acolyte 1; Components: V, S, DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: 50 ft.; Area: All enemies within 50 ft.; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: Will negates; Spell Resistance: Yes
The caster’s enemies suffer a –1 penalty on their attack rolls and a –1 penalty on saving throws against fear effects.
Bane counters and dispels bless.

Bestow Curse
Necromancy
Level: Acolyte 3, Mage 4; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: Permanent; Saving Throw: Will negates; Spell Resistance: Yes
The caster places a curse on the creature touched. The caster chooses one of the three following effects, depending on the version selected:
–6 penalty to an ability score (minimum score of 1).
–4 penalty on attack rolls, saving throws, ability checks, and skill checks.
Each turn, the target has a 50% chance to act normally; otherwise, he or she takes no action.
A character may also invent his or her own curse, but it should be no more powerful than those described above, and the GM has final say on the curse’s effect.
The curse cannot be dispelled, but it can be removed with a break enchantment or remove curse spell.
Bestow curse counters remove curse.

Bless
Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
Level: Acolyte 1; Components: V, S, DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: 50 ft.; Area: All allies within 50 ft.; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The caster’s allies gain a morale bonus of +1 on their attack rolls and a morale bonus of +1 on saving throws against fear effects.
Bless counters and dispels bane.

Blur
Illusion
Level: Mage 2; Components: V; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 1 minute/level (D); Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The subject’s outline appears blurred, shifting and wavering. This distortion grants the subject one-half concealment (20% miss chance).
A see invisibility spell does not counteract the blur effect, but a true seeing spell does. Opponents who cannot see the subject ignore the spell’s effect.

Break Enchantment
Abjuration
Level: Acolyte 5; Components: V, S; Casting Time: 1 minute; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Target or Targets: Up to one creature per level, all within 30 ft. of each other; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: See text; Spell Resistance: No
This spell frees creatures from enchantments, transmutations, curses, and petrification (as well as other magical transformations). Break enchantment can reverse even an instantaneous effect. For each such effect, the caster makes a check of 1d20 + caster level (maximum +10) against a DC of 11 + caster level of the effect. Success means that the creature is free of the spell, curse, or effect. For cursed magic items, the DC is 25.
If the effect comes from some permanent magic item break enchantment does not remove the curse from the item but merely frees the victim from the item’s effects, leaving the item cursed. 

Burning Hands
Transmutation [Fire]
Level: Mage 1; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: 10 ft.; Area: Semicircular burst of flames 10 ft. long, centered on your hands; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Reflex half; Spell Resistance: Yes
A thin sheet of flame shoots from the caster’s outspread fingertips. The caster must hold his or her hands with the thumbs touching and fingers spread. The sheet of flame is about as thick as the caster’s thumbs. Any creature in the area of the flames takes 1d4 points of fire damage per caster level (maximum 5d4). Flammable materials such as cloth, paper, parchment, and thin wood burn if the flames touch them. A character can extinguish burning items as a full-round action.

Cause Fear
Necromancy [Fear, Mind-Affecting]
Level: Acolyte 1, Mage 1; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Target: One living creature; Duration: 1d4 rounds; Saving Throw: Will negates; Spell Resistance: Yes
The affected creature suffers a –2 morale penalty on attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, and saving throws. It flees from the caster as well as it can. If unable to flee, the creature may fight. Creatures with 6 or more Hit Dice are immune. Cause fear counters remove fear.
Note: Mind-affecting spells do not affect nonintelligent creatures, and fear spells do not affect undead.

Change Self
Illusion
Level: Mage 1; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Personal; Target: You; Duration: 10 minutes/level (D)
The caster can make him or herself—including clothing, armor, weapons, and equipment—look different. The caster can seem 1 foot shorter or taller, thin, fat, or in between. The caster cannot change body type. Otherwise, the changes can be as minor or as major as the caster desires.
The spell does not provide the abilities or mannerisms of the chosen form. It does not alter the perceived tactile (touch) or audible (sound) properties of the caster or his or her equipment.
If a character uses this spell to create a disguise, he or she gets a +10 bonus on the Disguise check.
Note: Creatures get a Will save to recognize the illusion if they interact with it.

Cloudkill
Conjuration (Creation)
Level: Mage 5; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Effect: Cloud spreads 30 ft. wide and 20 ft. high; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: See text; Spell Resistance: Yes
A bank of yellowish green poisonous fog billows out from the point the character designates. The fog obscures all sight, including darkvision, beyond 5 feet. A creature within 5 feet has one-half concealment (attacks suffer a 20% miss chance). Creatures farther away have total concealment (50% miss chance, and the attacker can’t use sight to locate the target). The fog’s vapors kill any living creature with 3 or fewer HD (no save) and cause creatures with 4 to 6 HD to make Fortitude saving throws or die. Living creatures above 6 HD, and creatures of 4 to 6 HD who make their saving throws, take 1d10 points of poison damage each round while in the cloud. Holding one’s breath doesn’t help. 
The cloudkill moves away from the character at 10 feet per round, rolling along the surface of the ground. (Figure out the cloud’s new spread each round based on its new point of origin, 10 feet farther away from the point of origin where the character cast the spell.) Because the vapors are heavier than air, they sink to the lowest level of the land, even pouring down openings. It cannot penetrate liquids, nor can it be cast underwater.
A moderate wind (11+ mph) disperses the fog in 4 rounds; a strong wind (21+ mph) disperses the fog in 1 round.

Command
Enchantment [Language-Dependent, Mind-Affecting]
Level: Acolyte 1; Components: V; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Target: One living creature; Duration: 1 round; Saving Throw: Will negates; Spell Resistance: Yes
The caster gives the subject a single command, which he or she obeys to the best of his or her ability at his or her earliest opportunity. The caster may select from the following options.
Approach: On the subject’s turn, the subject moves toward the caster as quickly and directly as possible for 1 round. The subject may do nothing but move during his or her turn, and he or she incurs attacks of opportunity for this movement as normal.
Drop: On the subject’s turn, he or she drops whatever he or she is holding. The subject can’t pick up any dropped item until his or her next turn.
Fall: The subject immediately falls to the ground and remains prone for 1 round. He or she may act normally while prone, but takes any appropriate penalties.
Flee: On the subject’s turn, he or she moves away from the caster as quickly as possible for 1 round. The subject may do nothing but move during his or her turn.
Halt: The subject stands in place for 1 round. The subject may not take any actions, but may defend him or herself normally.
If the subject can’t carry out the caster’s command on his or her next turn, the spell automatically fails.

Comprehend Languages
Divination
Level: Acolyte 1, Mage 1; Components: V, S, M/DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Personal; Target: You; Duration: 10 minutes/level
The caster can understand words spoken or written in a language he or she does not know (including the unique languages of some creatures). In either case, the caster must touch the speaker or the writing. Note that the ability to read does not necessarily impart insight into the material, merely its literal meaning. The spell enables the caster to understand or read an unknown language, not speak or write it.
Written material can be read at the rate of one page (250 words) per minute. Magical writing cannot be read, other than to know it is magical. This spell can be foiled by certain warding magic. It does not decipher codes or reveal messages concealed in otherwise normal text.

Cone of Cold
Evocation [Cold]
Level: Mage 5; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Area: Cone; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Reflex half; Spell Resistance: Yes
Cone of cold creates an area of extreme cold, originating at the caster’s hand and extending outward in a cone. It drains heat, causing 1d6 points of cold damage per caster level (maximum 10d6).

Confusion
Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
Level: Mage 4; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Targets: All creatures in a 15-ft. radius; Duration: 1 round/level; Saving Throw: Will negates; Spell Resistance: Yes
Creatures affected by this spell behave randomly, as indicated on the following table.

d10 RollBehavior1Wander away for 1 minute (unless prevented)2–6Do nothing for 1 round7–9Attack nearest creature for 1 round10Act normally for 1 round
Except on a result of 1, roll again each round on the creature’s turn to see what the subject does in that round. Wandering creatures leave the scene as if disinterested. Attackers are not at any special advantage when attacking them. Any confused creature who is attacked automatically attacks its attackers on its next turn.

Create Water
Conjuration (Creation)
Level: Acolyte 0; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Effect: Up to 2 gallons of water/level; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
This spell generates wholesome, drinkable water, just like clean rainwater. Water can be created in an area as small as will actually contain the liquid, or in an area three times as large.
Note: This spell cannot create water within a creature. Water weighs about 8 pounds per gallon. One cubic foot of water contains roughly 8 gallons and weighs about 60 pounds.

Cure Critical Wounds
Conjuration (Healing)
Level: Acolyte 4; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will half (harmless) (see text); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The caster lays his or her hand upon a living creature and channels positive energy that cures 4d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (up to +10).
Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell deals damage to them instead of curing their wounds. An undead creature can attempt a Will save to take half damage.

Cure Light Wounds
Conjuration (Healing)
Level: Acolyte 1; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will half (harmless) (see text); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The caster lays his or her hand upon a living creature and channels positive energy that cures 1d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (up to +5).
Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell deals damage to them instead of curing their wounds. An undead creature can attempt a Will save to take half damage.

Cure Minor Wounds
Conjuration (Healing)
Level: Acolyte 0; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will half (harmless) (see text); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The caster lays his or her hand upon a living creature and channels positive energy that cures 1 point of damage..
Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell deals damage to them instead of curing their wounds. An undead creature can attempt a Will save to take half damage.

Cure Moderate Wounds
Conjuration (Healing)
Level: Acolyte 2; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will half (harmless) (see text); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The caster lays his or her hand upon a living creature and channels positive energy that cures 2d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (up to +10).
Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell deals damage to them instead of curing their wounds. An undead creature can attempt a Will save to take half damage.

Cure Serious Wounds
Conjuration (Healing)
Level: Acolyte 3; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will half (harmless) (see text); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The caster lays his or her hand upon a living creature and channels positive energy that cures 3d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (up to +10).
Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell deals damage to them instead of curing their wounds. An undead creature can attempt a Will save to take half damage.

Darkvision
Transmutation
Level: Mage 2; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 1 hour/level; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The subject gains the ability to see 60 feet even in total darkness. Darkvision is black and white only but otherwise like normal sight. Darkvision does not grant the ability to see in magical darkness.

Daze
Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
Level: Mage 0; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Target: One person; Duration: 1 round; Saving Throw: Will negates; Spell Resistance: Yes
This enchantment clouds the mind of a humanoid of Medium-size or smaller so that he takes no actions. Humanoids of 5 or more HD are not affected. The dazed subject is not stunned (so attackers get no special advantage against him or her), but the subject can’t move, cast spells, use mental abilities, or perform any other actions requiring awareness or concentration.

Delay Poison
Conjuration (Healing)
Level: Acolyte 2; Components: V, S, DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 1 hour/level; Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The subject becomes temporarily immune to poison. Any poison in the subject’s system, or any poison the subject is exposed to during the spell’s duration, does not affect the subject until the spell has expired. Delay poison does not cure any damage that a poison may have already dealt.

Detect Magical Aura
Universal
Level: Acolyte 0, Mage 0; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: 60 ft.; Area: Quarter-circle emanating from you to the extreme of the range; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute/level (D); Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
The caster can detect magical auras. The amount of information revealed depends on how long the caster studies a particular area or subject.
1st Round: Presence or absence of magical auras.
2nd Round: Number of different magical auras and the strength of the strongest aura.
3rd Round: The strength and location of each aura.
Magical areas, multiple types of magic, or strong local magical emanations may confuse or conceal weaker auras.
Aura Strength: An aura’s magical power and strength depend on a spell’s functioning spell level or an item’s caster level.

Functioning Spell LevelItem Caster LevelAura Power0-level or lingering auraLingering auraDim1st–2nd1st–3rdFaint3rd4th–5thModerate4th6th–7thStrong5th8th–10thOverwhelming
If an aura falls into more than one category, detect magical aura indicates the stronger of the two.
Length Aura Lingers: How long a magical aura lingers after the source has vacated the location depends on the aura’s original strength.

Original StrengthDurationFaint1d6 minutesModerate 1d6 x 10 minutesStrong1d6 hoursOverwhelming1d6 days
Each round, the caster can turn to detect things in a new area. The spell can penetrate barriers, but 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of wood or dirt blocks it.

Dimension Door
Conjuration (Teleporting)
Level: Mage 4; Components: V; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); Target: You and touched objects or other touched willing creatures weighing up to 50 lb./level; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: None and Will negates (object); Spell Resistance: No and Yes (object)
The caster instantly transfers him or herself from his or her current location to any other spot within range. The caster always arrives at exactly the spot desired—whether by simply visualizing the area or by stating direction.  After using this spell, the caster can’t take any other actions until his or her next turn.
If the caster arrives in a place that is already occupied by a solid body, he or she is transported to a random open space on a suitable surface within 100 feet of the intended location. If there is no free space within 100 feet, the caster appears in a free space within 1,000 feet. If there’s no free space within 1,000 feet, the spell fails and the caster remains where he or she is.

Discern Lies
Divination
Level: Acolyte 4; Components: V, S, DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Targets: One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; Duration: Concentration, up to 1 round/level; Saving Throw: Will negates; Spell Resistance: No
Each round, the caster concentrates on one subject, who must be in range. The caster knows if the subject deliberately and knowingly speaks a lie. The spell does not reveal the truth, uncover unintentional inaccuracies, or necessarily reveal evasions. Each round, the caster may concentrate on a different subject.

Dispel Magic
Abjuration
Level: Acolyte 3, Mage 3; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Target or Area: One spellcaster, creature, or object; or 30-ft.-radius burst; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
A caster can use dispel magic to end ongoing spells that have been cast on a creature or object, to temporarily suppress the magical abilities of a magic item, to end ongoing spells (or at least their effects) within an area. A dispelled spell ends as if its duration had expired. Dispel magic can dispel (but not counter) the ongoing effects of supernatural abilities as well as spells. Dispel magic affects spell-like effects just as it affects spells.
Note: The effects of spells with instantaneous duration can’t be dispelled, because the magical effect is already over before the dispel magic can take effect.
The caster chooses to use dispel magic in one of two ways: a targeted dispel or an area dispel:
Targeted Dispel: One object, creature, or spell is the target of the spell. The caster makes a dispel check against the spell or against each ongoing spell currently in effect on the object or creature. A dispel check is 1d20 +1 per caster level (maximum +10) against a DC of 11 + the spell’s caster level.
If the spellcaster targets an object or creature that is the effect of an ongoing spell, he or she makes a dispel check to end the spell.
If the object that is targeted is a magic item, the caster makes a dispel check against the item’s caster level. If the caster succeeds, all the item’s magical properties are suppressed for 1d4 rounds, after which the item recovers on its own. A suppressed item becomes nonmagical for the duration of the effect. The item’s physical properties are unchanged: 
A caster automatically succeeds on his or her dispel check against any spell that he or she cast.
Area Dispel: The spell affects everything within a 30-foot radius.
For each creature that is the target of one or more spells, the caster makes a dispel check against the spell with the highest caster level. If that fails, the caster makes dispel checks against progressively weaker spells until he or she dispels one spell (which discharges the dispel so far as that target is concerned) or fails all the checks. The creature’s magic items are not affected.
For each object that is the target of one or more spells, the caster make dispel checks as with creatures. Magic items are not affected by area dispels.
For each ongoing area or effect spell centered within the dispel magic’s area, the caster makes a dispel check to dispel the spell.
For each ongoing spell whose area overlaps that of the dispel, the caster makes a dispel check to end the effect, but only within the area of the dispel magic.
A caster may choose to automatically succeed on dispel checks against any spell that he or she has cast.

Displacement
Illusion
Level: Mage 3; Components: V, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 1 round/level (D); Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The subject appears to be about 2 feet away from his or her true location. The subject benefits from a 50% miss chance as if he or she had total concealment. However, unlike actual total concealment, displacement does not prevent enemies from targeting the subject normally. True seeing reveals the subject’s true location.
Material Component:  Purchase DC 9.

Energy Trap
Abjuration
Level: Mage 4; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: 10 minutes; Range: Touch; Target: Object touched; Duration: Permanent until discharged (D); Saving Throw: Reflex half (see text); Spell Resistance: Yes
Energy trap creates an explosion of one energy type (acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic/concussion) when an intruder opens the item that the trap wards. The energy trap can ward any closeable item. When casting energy trap, the caster selects the energy type and a point on the item as the spell’s center. When someone other than the caster opens the item, the resulting explosion fills the area within a 5-foot radius around the spell’s center. The energy blast deals 1d4 points of damage (of the given energy type) +1 point per caster level. The item protected by the trap is not harmed by this explosion.
The warded item cannot have a second closure or warding spell placed on it.
An unsuccessful dispel magic spell does not detonate the spell.
Underwater, the acid and fire versions of this spell deal half damage.
The caster can use the trapped object without discharging it, as can any individual to whom the spell was specifically attuned when cast. “Attuning” to an individual usually involves denoting a password that the caster can share with friends.
A successful Search check (DC 29) finds an energy trap, and a successful Disable Device check (DC 29) safely removes it. 
Material Components: Purchase DC 10.

Enhance Ability
Transmutation
Level: Acolyte 2, Mage 2; Components: V, S, M/DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The spell grants a temporary +5 enhancement bonus to one ability score (Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma) chosen by the caster at the time of casting.
A temporary increase to Intelligence or Wisdom does not allow arcane or divine casters to gain extra spells, but the save DCs for their spells increase. A temporary increase in Intelligence doesn’t grant extra skill points.

Faith’s Fury
Evocation
Level: Acolyte 4; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Area: 20-ft.-radius burst; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Fortitude partial (see text); Spell Resistance: Yes
The caster draws upon holy (or unholy) power to smite enemies with one of the following allegiances, as chosen by the caster: chaos, evil, good, or law. The spell deals 1d8 points of damage per two caster levels (maximum 5d8) to creatures with the designated allegiance and blinds them for 1 round. A successful Fortitude saving throw reduces damage to half and negates the blinding effect.
The spell does not affect creatures that do not have the chosen allegiance.
An outsider with the designated allegiance instead suffers 1d6 points of damage per caster level (maximum 10d6).
In addition to the obvious effects, a blinded creature suffers a 50% miss chance in combat (all opponents have total concealment), loses any Dexterity bonus to Defense, grants a +2 bonus on opponents’ attack rolls (they are effectively invisible), moves at half speed, and takes a –4 penalty on Search checks and most Strength- and Dexterity-based skill checks.

Fear
Necromancy [Fear, Mind-Affecting]
Level: Mage 4; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Area: Cone; Duration: 1 round/level; Saving Throw: Will negates; Spell Resistance: Yes
An invisible cone of terror causes living creatures to become panicked. They suffer a –2 morale penalty on saving throws, and they flee from the caster. A panicked creature has a 50% chance to drop what it’s holding, chooses its path randomly (as long as it is getting away from immediate danger), and flees any other dangers that confront it. If cornered, a panicked creature cowers. A cowering creature loses its Dexterity bonus, can take no actions, and takes a –2 penalty to its Defense.

Feather Fall
Transmutation
Level: Mage 1; Components: V; Casting Time: See text; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Targets: Any free-falling objects or creatures in a 10-ft. radius whose weight does not total more than 300 lb./level; Duration: Until landing or 1 round/level; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) or Will negates (object); Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
The creatures or objects affected fall slowly. The rate of falling is instantly changed to a mere 60 feet per round, with no damage incurred upon landing while the spell is in effect. However, when the spell duration ceases, a normal rate of fall resumes.
The character can cast this spell with an instant utterance, quickly enough to save him or herself if he or she unexpectedly falls. Casting the spell is a free action.
This spell has no effect on ranged weapons unless they are falling quite a distance. If the spell is cast on a falling item the item does half normal damage based on weight with no bonus for the height of the drop. 
The spell works only upon free-falling objects. It does not affect melee weapon attacks or charging or flying creatures.

Fireball
Evocation [Fire]
Level: Mage 3; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); Area: 20-ft.-radius spread; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Reflex half; Spell Resistance: Yes
A fireball spell detonates with a low roar and deals 1d6 points of fire damage per caster level (maximum 10d6) to all creatures within the area. Unattended objects also take this damage. The explosion creates no concussive force.
The caster points his or her finger and determines the range (distance and height) at which the fireball is to burst. A glowing, pea-sized bead streaks from the caster and, unless it impacts upon a material body or solid barrier prior to attaining the prescribed range, bursts into the fireball at that point (an early impact results in an early detonation). If the caster attempts to send the bead through a narrow passage the caster must “hit” the opening with a successful ranged touch attack or else the bead strikes the barrier and detonates prematurely.
The fireball sets fire to combustibles and damages objects in the area. It can melt metals with a low melting point. If the damage caused to an interposing barrier shatters or breaks through it, the fireball may continue beyond the barrier if the area permits; otherwise it stops at the barrier just as any other spell effect does.

Flaming Projectiles
Transmutation [Fire]
Level: Mage 3; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Target: 50 projectiles, all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of casting; Duration: 10 minutes/level; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
The caster turns ammunition (such as arrows, bolts, bullets, and shuriken) into fiery projectiles. Each projectile deals an extra 1d6 points of fire damage to any target it hits. The flaming projectiles can easily ignite flammable materials or structures, but won’t ignite creatures struck.

Flaming Wrath
Evocation [Fire]
Level: Acolyte 5; Components: V, S, DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Area: Cylinder (10-ft. radius, 40 ft. high); Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Reflex half; Spell Resistance: Yes
This spell produces a vertical column of divine fire roaring downward. The spell deals 1d6 points of fire damage per caster level (maximum 10d6).

Freedom of Movement
Abjuration
Level: Acolyte 4; Components: V, S, M, DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range:  Personal or touch; Target: You or creature touched; Duration: 10 minutes/_level; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
This spell enables the caster or the creature touched to move and attack normally for the duration of the spell, even under the influence of magic that usually impedes movement.
The spell also allows a character to move and attack normally while underwater, even with slashing and bludgeoning weapons, provided that the weapon is wielded in the hand rather than hurled. The freedom of movement spell does not, however, allow water breathing.

Glitterdust
Conjuration (Creation)
Level: Mage 2; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Area: Creatures and objects within 10-ft. spread; Duration: 1 round/level; Saving Throw: Will negates (blinding only); Spell Resistance: Yes
A cloud of particles covers everyone and everything in the area, blinding creatures and visibly outlining invisible things for the duration of the spell. All within the area are covered by the dust, which cannot be removed and continues to sparkle until it fades.
In addition to the obvious effects, a blinded creature suffers a 50% miss chance in combat (all opponents have full concealment), loses any Dexterity bonus to Defense, grants a +2 bonus on opponents’ attack rolls (they are effectively invisible), moves at half speed, and suffers a –4 penalty on Search checks and most Strength- and Dexterity-based skill checks.

Glyph of Warding
Abjuration
Level: Acolyte 3; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: 10 minutes; Range: Touch; Target or Area: Object touched or up to 5 sq. ft./level; Duration: Permanent until discharged (D); Saving Throw: See text; Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
This inscription harms those who enter, pass, or open the warded area or object.  
The caster sets the conditions of the ward. Typically, any creature entering the warded area or opening the warded object without speaking a pass phrase (which the caster sets when casting the spell) is subject to the magic it stores. Alternatively or in addition to a pass phrase trigger, glyphs of warding can be set according to physical characteristics or creature type, or species. Glyphs can also be set with respect to allegiance. They cannot be set according to class, Hit Dice, or level. Glyphs respond to invisible creatures normally. Multiple glyphs cannot be cast on the same area. However, they can ward separate compartments of the same object.
The glyph can be placed to conform to any shape up to the limitations of the spell’s total square footage. When the spell is completed, the glyph becomes nearly invisible.
Glyphs cannot be affected or bypassed by such means as physical or magical probing, though they can be dispelled. Nonmagical disguises cannot fool a glyph of warding.
Read magic allows a character to identify a glyph of warding with a successful Spellcraft check (DC 13). Identifying the glyph does not discharge it and allows the character to know the basic nature of the glyph (version, type of damage caused, what spell is stored).
Detecting the glyph requires a successful Search check (DC 28), and safely removing it requires a successful Disable Device check (DC 28).
Depending on the version selected, a glyph either blasts the intruder or activates a spell.
Blast Glyph: A blast deals 1d8 points of damage per two caster levels to the intruder and to all within 5 feet of the intruder (maximum 5d8). This damage is acid, cold, fire, electricity, or sonic/concussion (caster’s choice, made at time of casting). Those affected can make Reflex saves to take half damage.
Spell Glyph: The caster can store any harmful spell of up to 3rd level that he or she knows. All level-dependent features of the spell are based on the caster’s level at the time of casting. If the spell has targets, it targets the intruder. If the spell normally affects an area, the area or effect is centered on the intruder. All saving throws operate as normal, except that the DC is based on the level of the glyph.
Material Component:  Purchase DC 15.

Greater Command
Enchantment [Language-Dependent, Mind-Affecting]
Level: Acolyte 5; Components: V; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Targets: One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; Duration: 1 round/level; Saving Throw: Will negates; Spell Resistance: Yes
The caster gives the subjects a single command, which they obey to the best of their ability at their earliest opportunity. The caster may select from the following options.
Approach: On the subjects’ turn, the subjects move toward the caster as quickly and directly as possible for the duration. The subjects may do nothing but move during their turn, and they incur attacks of opportunity for this movement as normal.
Drop: On the subjects’ turn, they drop whatever they are holding.
Fall: The subject immediately falls to the ground and remains prone for the duration. They may act normally while prone, but take any appropriate penalties.
Flee: On the subjects’ turn, they move away from the caster as quickly as possible for the duration. The subjects may do nothing but move during their turn.
Halt: The subjects stand in place for the duration. The subjects may not take any actions, but may defend themselves normally.
If a subject can’t carry out the caster’s command on his or her next turn, the spell automatically fails for that subject.
At the start of each commanded creature’s action after the first, it gets another Will save to attempt to break free from the spell.

Greater Magic Weapon
Transmutation
Level: Acolyte 4, Mage 3; Components: V, S, M/DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Target: One weapon or 50 projectiles (all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of casting); Duration: 1 hour/level; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
This spell gives a weapon an enhancement bonus to attack and damage of +1. This bonus increases to +2 at 8th caster level. An enhancement bonus does not stack with a mastercraft weapon’s bonus to attack.
Alternatively, the caster can affect up to fifty arrows, bolts, or individual bullets, or a single magazine of up to 50 rounds. The projectiles must be of the same type, and they have to be together. Projectiles (but not thrown weapons) lose their transmutation after use.
A caster can’t cast this spell on a natural weapon such as an unarmed strike

Halt Undead
Necromancy
Level: Mage 3; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Targets: Up to three undead, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; Duration: 1 round/level; Saving Throw: See text; Spell Resistance: Yes
This spell renders up to three undead creatures immobile. Nonintelligent undead get no saving throw; intelligent undead do. If the spell is successful, it renders the undead immobile for the duration of the spell. The effect is broken if the halted creatures are attacked or take damage.

Haste
Transmutation
Level: Mage 3; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Target: One creature; Duration: 1 round/level; Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The transmuted creature moves and acts more quickly than normal. This extra speed has several effects.
When making a full attack action, the subject may make one extra attack with any weapon he or she is holding. The attack is made using the character’s full base attack bonus, plus any modifiers appropriate to the situation. (This benefit does not actually grant an extra action, so a character can’t use it to cast a second spell or otherwise take an extra action in the round.)
The subject gains a +2 dodge bonus to Defense. Any condition that makes the subject lose his or her Dexterity bonus to Defense (if any) also makes the subject lose dodge bonuses.
All of the subject’s modes of movement (including normal movement, burrow, climb, fly, and swim) increase by 30 feet (to a maximum of double the subject’s normal speed).
Haste dispels and counters slow.

Hold Monster
Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
Level: Mage 5; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Target: One living creature; Duration: 1 round/level (D); Saving Throw: Will negates; Spell Resistance: Yes
The subject freezes in place, standing helpless. The subject is aware and breathes normally but cannot take any physical actions, even speech. The subject can, however, execute purely mental actions (including using psionic powers).
A winged creature who is held cannot flap its wings and falls. A swimmer can’t swim and may drown.

Hold Person
Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
Level: Acolyte 2, Mage 3; Components: V, S, F/DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Target: One Medium-size or smaller humanoid; Duration: 1 round/level (D); Saving Throw: Will negates; Spell Resistance: Yes
The subject freezes in place, standing helpless. The subject is aware and breathes normally but cannot take any physical actions, even speech. The subject can, however, execute purely mental actions (including using psionic powers).
A winged creature who is held cannot flap its wings and falls. A swimmer can’t swim and may drown.

Hold Portal
Abjuration
Level: Mage 1; Component: V; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Target: One portal, up to 20 sq. ft./level; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
This spell magically bars a door, gate, window, or shutter of wood, metal, or stone. The magic holds the portal fast, just as if it were securely closed and normally locked. A knock spell or a successful dispel magic spell can negate the hold portal. For a portal affected by this spell, add 5 to the normal DC for forcing the portal.

Ice Storm
Evocation [Cold]
Level: Mage 4; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); Area: Cylinder (20-ft. radius, 40 ft. high); Duration: 1 round; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: Yes
Hail falls for one full round, dealing 3d6 points of bludgeoning damage and 2d6 points of cold damage to creatures in their path. Listen checks made within the ice storm’s effect take a –4 penalty, and all ground movement within its area is at half speed. At the end of the duration, the hail disappears, leaving no aftereffects (other than the damage inflicted).

Inflict Critical Wounds
Necromancy
Level: Acolyte 4; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will half; Spell Resistance: Yes
The caster lays his or her hand upon a creature and channels negative energy that deals 4d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +10).
Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell cures them of a like amount of damage rather than harming them.

Inflict Light Wounds
Necromancy
Level: Acolyte 1; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will half; Spell Resistance: Yes
The caster lays his or her hand upon a creature and channels negative energy that deals 1d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +5).
Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell cures them of a like amount of damage rather than harming them.

Inflict Minor Wounds
Necromancy
Level: Acolyte 0; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will negates; Spell Resistance: Yes 
The caster lays his or her hand upon a creature and channels negative energy that deals 1 point of damage.
Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell cures them of a like amount of damage rather than harming them.

Inflict Moderate Wounds
Necromancy
Level: Acolyte 2; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will half; Spell Resistance: Yes
The caster lays his or her hand upon a creature and channels negative energy that deals 2d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +10).
Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell cures them of a like amount of damage rather than harming them.

Inflict Serious Wounds
Necromancy
Level: Acolyte 3; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will half; Spell Resistance: Yes
The caster lays his or her hand upon a creature and channels negative energy that deals 3d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level (maximum +10).
Since undead are powered by negative energy, this spell cures them of a like amount of damage rather than harming them.

Insect Plague
Conjuration (Summoning) [see text]
Level: Acolyte 5; Components: V, S, DF; Casting Time: Full-round action; Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); Effect: Cloud of insects 180 ft. in diameter; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: See text; Spell Resistance: No
A horde of insects swarm in a thick cloud when this spell is cast. The insects limit vision to 10 feet, and spellcasting within the cloud is impossible. Creatures inside the insect plague, regardless of Defense, sustain 1 point of damage at the end of each round they remain within, due to the bites and stings of the insects. Invisibility is no protection. All creatures with 2 or fewer HD are driven from the cloud at their fastest possible speed in a random direction and flee until they are at least 100 feet away from the insects. Creatures with 3 to 5 HD flee as well, though a Will save negates this effect. (This urge to flee is an extraordinary fear effect.)
Heavy smoke drives off insects within its bounds. Fire also drives insects away.  The insects return as soon as the fire is extinguished.  A single torch is ineffective against this vast horde of insects. Lightning, cold, and ice are likewise ineffective, while a strong wind (21+ mph) that covers the entire plague area disperses the insects and ends the spell.

Invisibility
Illusion
Level: Mage 2; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Personal or touch; Target: You or a creature or object weighing no more than 100 lb./level; Duration: 1 minute/level (D); Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) or Will negates (harmless, object); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) or Yes (harmless, object)
The creature or object touched vanishes from sight, even from darkvision. If the recipient is a creature carrying gear, the gear vanishes, too. If the caster casts the spell on someone else, neither the caster nor his or her allies can see the subject, unless they can normally see invisible things or employ magic to do so.
Items dropped or put down by an invisible creature become visible; items picked up disappear if tucked into the clothing worn by the creature. Light, however, never becomes invisible, although a source of light can become so. Any part of an item that the subject carries but that extends more than 10 feet from it becomes visible.
The subject is not magically silenced, and certain other conditions can render the recipient detectable. The spell ends if the subject attacks any creature. For purposes of this spell, an “attack” includes any spell targeting a foe or whose area or effect includes a foe. (Exactly who is a foe depends on the invisible character’s perceptions.) Actions directed at unattended objects do not break the spell. Causing harm indirectly is not an attack. If the subject attacks directly, however, it immediately becomes visible along with all its gear. Note that spells that specifically affect allies but not foes are not attacks for this purpose, even when they include foes in their area.
An invisible creature gains a +40 bonus on Hide checks if immobile, or a +20 bonus on Hide checks if moving. Pinpointing the location of an invisible character who isn’t attempting to hide requires a Spot check against DC 40 if immobile or DC 20 if moving.

Invisibility Sphere
Illusion
Level: Mage 3; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Personal or touch; Area: 10-ft.-radius sphere around the creature or object touched; Duration: 1 minute/level (D); Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless) or Will negates (harmless, object); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless) or Yes (harmless, object)
All creatures within 10 feet of the recipient, including the recipient, vanish from sight, even from darkvision.  The center of the effect is mobile with the recipient.  If the creatures are carrying gear, the gear vanishes, too. Those affected by this spell cannot see each other but can see themselves. Any affected creature moving out of the area becomes visible, but creatures moving into the area after the spell is cast do not become invisible.  Items dropped or put down by an invisible creature become visible; items picked up disappear if tucked into the clothing worn by the creature. Light, however, never becomes invisible, although a source of light can become so. Any part of an item that the subject carries but that extends more than 10 feet beyond the range of the spell becomes visible.
The subjects are not magically silenced, and certain other conditions can render a recipient detectable. Affected creatures (other than the recipient) who attack negate the invisibility only for themselves. If the spell recipient attacks, the invisibility sphere ends.  For purposes of this spell, an “attack” includes any spell targeting a foe or whose area or effect includes a foe. (Exactly who is a foe depends on the invisible character’s perceptions.) Actions directed at unattended objects do not break the spell. Causing harm indirectly is not an attack. If a subject attacks directly, however, it immediately becomes visible along with all its gear. Note that spells that specifically affect allies but not foes are not attacks for this purpose, even when they include foes in their area.
An invisible creature gains a +40 bonus on Hide checks if immobile, or a +20 bonus on Hide checks if moving. Pinpointing the location of an invisible character who isn’t attempting to hide requires a Spot check against DC 40 if immobile or DC 20 if moving.

Jump
Transmutation
Level: Mage 1; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 1 minute/level (D); Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes
The subject gets an enhancement bonus on Jump checks. The enhancement bonus is +10 at 1st level, +20 at 3rd level, and +30 at 5th level (the maximum).

Keen Edge
Transmutation
Level: Mage 3; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Targets: One weapon or 50 projectiles, all of which must be in contact with each other at the time of casting; Duration: 10 minutes/level; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
This transmutation doubles the threat range of the weapon. A threat range of 20 becomes 19–20. A threat range of 19–20 becomes 17–20. A threat range of 18–20 becomes 15–20. The spell can be cast only on piercing or slashing weapons (and it does not stack with itself). If cast on arrows or crossbow bolts, the keen edge on a particular projectile ends after one use, whether or not the missile strikes its intended target.
This spell cannot be cast on a natural weapon, such as an unarmed strike.

Knock
Transmutation
Level: Mage 2; Components: V; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Target: One door, box, or chest with an area of up to 10 sq. ft./level; Duration: Instantaneous (see text); Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
The knock spell opens stuck, barred, locked, or magically held or sealed doors. It opens secret doors, as well as locked or trick-opening boxes or chests. It also loosens welds, shackles, or chains (provided they serve to hold closures shut). In all other cases, the door does not relock itself or become stuck again on its own. Knock does not raise barred gates or similar impediments, nor does it affect ropes, vines, and the like. Note that the effect is limited by the area.  Each spell can undo up to two means of preventing egress. 

Lesser Restoration
Conjuration (Healing)
Level: Acolyte 2; Components: V, S; Casting Time: 3 rounds; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
Lesser restoration dispels any magical effects reducing one of the subject’s ability scores or cures 1d4 points of temporary ability damage to one of the subject’s ability scores. It does not restore permanent ability drain.

Levitate
Transmutation
Level: Mage 2; Components: V, S, F; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Personal or close (25 ft.+ 5 ft./2 levels); Target: You or one willing creature or one object (total weight up to 100 lb./level); Duration: 1 round/level (D); Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
A creature must be willing to be levitated, and an object must be unattended or possessed by a willing creature. The caster can mentally direct the subject to move up or down as much as 20 feet each round; doing so is a move-equivalent action. The caster cannot move the recipient horizontally, but the subject could push or pull his or her way provided there is a surface to grasp (generally at half its base speed).
A levitating creature that attacks with a melee or ranged weapon finds itself increasingly unstable; the first attack is made with a –1 penalty, the second –2, and so on, up to a maximum penalty of –5. A full round spent stabilizing allows the creature to begin again at –1.

Light
Evocation [Light]
Level: Acolyte 0, Mage 0; Components: V, M/DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Object touched; Duration: 10 minutes/level (D); Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
This spell causes an object to glow, shedding light in a 20-foot radius from the point the caster touches. The effect is immobile, but it can be cast on a movable object. Light taken into an area of magical darkness does not function.

Lightning Bolt
Evocation [Electricity]
Level: Mage 3; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level) or 50 ft. + 5 ft./level; Area: 5 ft. wide to medium range (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); or 10 ft. wide to 50 ft. + 5 ft./level; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Reflex half; Spell Resistance: Yes
The caster releases a bolt of electrical energy that deals 1d6 points of damage per caster level (maximum 10d6) to each creature within its area. The bolt begins at the caster. The lightning bolt sets fire to combustibles and damages objects in its path. It can melt metals with a low melting point. If the damage caused to an interposing barrier shatters or breaks through it, the bolt may continue beyond the barrier if the spell’s range permits; otherwise, it stops at the barrier just as any other spell effect does.

Locate Object
Divination
Level: Acolyte 3; Components: V, S, DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); Area: Circle, centered on you, with a radius of 400 ft. + 40 ft./level; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
The caster senses the direction of a well-known or clearly visualized object.  The caster can search for general items, in which case the caster locates the nearest one of its type if more than one is within range. Attempting to find a specific item requires a specific and accurate mental image; if the image is not close enough to the actual object, the spell fails. The caster cannot specify a unique object unless he or she has observed that particular item firsthand (not through divination).
The spell is blocked by even a thin sheet of lead. Creatures cannot be found by this spell.

Mage Armor
Conjuration (Creation) [Force]
Level: Mage 1; Components: V, S, F; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 1 hour/level (D); Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
An invisible but tangible field of force surrounds the subject of mage armor, providing a +4 equipment bonus to Defense. Unlike mundane armor, mage armor carries no armor penalty, maximum Dexterity bonus, arcane spell failure chance, or speed reduction.

Mage Hand
Transmutation
Level: Mage 0; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Target: Nonmagical, unattended object weighing up to 5 lb.; Duration: Concentration; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
The caster can lift an object and move it at will from a distance. As a move action, the caster can move the object up to 15 feet in any direction, though the spell ends if the distance between the caster and the object ever exceeds the spell’s range. 

Magic Missile
Evocation [Force]
Level: Mage 1; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Targets: Up to five creatures, no two of which can be more than 15 ft. apart; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: Yes
A missile of magical energy shoots from the caster and unerringly strikes its target, dealing 1d4+1 points of damage.
The missile strikes unerringly, even if the target is in melee or has anything less than total cover or concealment. Specific parts of a creature can’t be singled out. Inanimate objects are not damaged by the spell.
For every two levels of experience past 1st, the caster gains an additional missile. He or she has two at 3rd level, three at 5th level, four at 7th level, and the maximum of five missiles at 9th level. If the caster shoots multiple missiles, they can be targeted at a single creature or several creatures. A single missile can strike only one creature. The caster must designate targets before rolling for spell resistance or roll damage.

Magic Mouth
Illusion
Level: Mage 2; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Target: One creature or object; Duration: Permanent until discharged; Saving Throw: Will negates (object); Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
This spell imbues the target with an enchanted mouth that suddenly appears and speaks its message the next time a specified event occurs. The message, which must be twenty-five or fewer words long, can be in any language known by the caster and can be delivered over a period of 10 minutes. The mouth cannot speak verbal components, use command words, or activate magical effects. 
The spell functions when specific conditions are fulfilled according to the caster’s command as set in the spell. Commands can be as general or as detailed as desired, although only visual and audible triggers can be used.  Triggers react to what appears to be the case. Disguises and illusions can fool them. Normal darkness does not defeat a visual trigger, but magical darkness or invisibility does. Silent movement or magical silence defeats an audible trigger. Audible triggers can be keyed to general types of noises or to a specific noise or spoken word. Actions can serve as triggers if they are visible or audible. A magic mouth cannot distinguish allegiance, level, HD, or class except by external garb.
The range limit of a trigger is 15 feet per caster level. Regardless of range, the mouth can respond only to visible or audible triggers and actions in line of sight or within hearing distance.
Material Component: Purchase DC 12.

Magic Weapon
Transmutation
Level: Acolyte 1, Mage 1; Components: V, S, DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Weapon touched; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
Magic weapon gives a weapon a +1 enhancement bonus on attack and damage rolls.
This spell cannot be cast on a natural weapon, such as an unarmed strike.

Mass Cure Light Wounds
Conjuration (Healing)
Level: Acolyte 5; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Target: One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will half (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
Positive energy spreads out in all directions from the point of origin, curing 1d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level to nearby living allies.
Mass cure light wounds deals damage to undead in its area rather than curing them.

Mass Inflict Light Wounds
Necromancy
Level: Acolyte 5; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Target: One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will half (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
Negative energy spreads out in all directions from the point of origin, dealing 1d8 points of damage +1 point per caster level to nearby living enemies.
Mass inflict light wounds heals undead in its area rather than damaging them.

Message
Transmutation [Language-Dependent]
Level: Mage 0; Components: V, S, F; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Targets: One creature/level; Duration: 10 minutes/level; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
The caster can whisper messages and receive whispered replies with little chance of being overheard. The caster designates each creature to be included in the spell effect. When the caster whispers, the whispered message is audible to all of the targeted creatures who are within range. Magical silence, 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal (or a thin sheet of lead), or 3 feet of wood or dirt blocks the spell. The message, however, does not have to travel in a straight line. It can circumvent a barrier if there is an open path between the caster and the subject, and the path’s entire length lies within the spell’s range. The creatures who receive the message can whisper a reply that the caster hears. The spell transmits sound, not meaning. It doesn’t transcend language barriers.

Minor Globe of Invulnerability
Abjuration
Level: Mage 4; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: 10 ft.; Area: 10-ft.-radius spherical emanation, centered on you; Duration: 1 round/level; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
An immobile, faintly shimmering magical sphere surrounds the caster and excludes all spell effects of 3rd level and lower. The area or effect of any such spells does not include the area of the minor globe of invulnerability. Such spells fail to affect any target located within the globe. This includes spell-like abilities and spells or spell-like effects from objects. However, any type of spell can be cast through or out of the magical globe. Spells of 4th level and higher are not affected by the globe. The globe can be brought down by a targeted dispel magic spell, but not by an area dispel magic. The caster can leave and return to the globe without penalty.
Note that spell effects are not disrupted unless their effects enter the globe, and even then they are merely suppressed, not dispelled. 
If a given spell has more than one level depending on which character class is casting it, use the level appropriate to the caster to determine whether minor globe of invulnerability stops it.

Neutralize Poison
Conjuration (Healing)
Level: Acolyte 4; Components: V, S, M/DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature or object of up to 1 cu. ft./level touched; Duration: 10 minutes/level; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless, object); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless, object)
The caster detoxifies any sort of venom in the creature or object touched. A poisoned creature suffers no additional damage or effects from the poison, and any temporary effects are ended, but the spell does not reverse instantaneous effects, such as hit point damage, temporary ability damage, or effects that don’t go away on their own.
The creature is immune to any poison it is exposed to during the duration of the spell. Unlike with delay poison, such effects aren’t postponed until after the duration—the creature is simply immune to all poison effects for the length of the spell.
This spell can instead neutralize the poison in a poisonous creature or object for the duration of the spell, at the caster’s option.

Passwall
Transmutation
Level: Mage 5; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Effect: 5-ft.-by-8 ft. opening, 1 ft./level deep; Duration: 1 hour/level (D); Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
The caster creates a passage through wooden, plaster, or stone walls, but not through metal or other harder materials. If the wall’s thickness is more than 1 foot per caster level, then a single passwall simply makes a niche or short tunnel. Several passwall spells can then form a continuing passage to breach very thick walls. When passwall ends, creatures within the passage are ejected out the nearest exit. If someone dispels the passwall or the caster dismisses it, creatures in the passage are ejected out the far exit if there is one or out the sole exit if there is only one.

Phantom Watchdog
Conjuration (Creation)
Level: Mage 5; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Effect: Phantom watchdog; Duration: 1 hour/caster level or until discharged, then 1 round/caster level; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
The caster conjures up a spectral watchdog that is invisible to everyone but the caster. It then guards the area where it was conjured. The phantom watchdog immediately starts barking loudly if any Small or larger creature approaches within 30 feet of it. (Those already within 30 feet of the hound when it is conjured may move about in the area, but if they leave and return, they activate the barking.) The hound sees invisible creatures but does not perceive illusions. It is stationary.
If an intruder approaches to within 5 feet of the watchdog, the dog stops barking and delivers a vicious bite (+10 bonus on its attack roll, 2d6+3 points of piercing damage) once per round. The dog also gets the bonuses appropriate to an invisible creature. (For most defenders, the invisible creature gets a +2 bonus on attack rolls and the defender loses any Dexterity bonus to Defense.) The dog is considered to have readied an action to bite an intruder, so it delivers its first bite on the intruder’s turn. Its bite is the equivalent of a +3 weapon for purposes of damage reduction. The hound cannot be attacked, but it can be dispelled.
The spell lasts for 1 hour per caster level, but once the hound begins barking, it lasts for only 1 round per caster level. If the caster is ever more than 100 feet distant from the watchdog, the spell ends.
Material Component: Purchase DC 3 for the lot.

Power Device
Transmutation
Level: Mage 1; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Effect: Powers one electrical or mechanical device; Duration: 10 minutes/level; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
This spell provides power to an electrical or mechanical device that does not have a power source but is otherwise functional.  The device functions exactly as it normally would if it had conventional power.
This spell can affect any household or handheld device, scratch-built robot, or general-purpose vehicle. Larger or more intricate devices cannot be powered with this spell.

Prayer
Conjuration (Creation)
Level: Acolyte 3; Components: V, S, DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: 30 ft.; Area: All allies and foes within a 30-ft.-radius burst centered on you; Duration: 1 round/level; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: Yes
The caster brings special favor upon him or herself and allies while bringing disfavor to his or her enemies. The caster and allies gain a +1 luck bonus on attack rolls, weapon damage rolls, saves, and skill checks, while foes take a –1 penalty on such rolls.

Prestidigitation
Universal
Level: Mage 0; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: 10 ft.; Target, Effect, or Area: See text; Duration: 1 hour; Saving Throw: See text; Spell Resistance: No
Once cast, the prestidigitation spell enables the caster to perform simple magical effects for 1 hour. The effects are minor and have severe limitations. Prestidigitations can slowly lift 1 pound of material. They can color, clean, or soil items in a 1-foot cube each round. They can chill, warm, or flavor 1 pound of nonliving material. They cannot deal damage or affect the concentration of spellcasters. Prestidigitation can create small objects, but they look crude and artificial. The materials created by a prestidigitation spell are extremely fragile, and they cannot be used as tools, weapons, or spell components. Finally, a prestidigitation spell lacks the power to duplicate any other spell effects. Any actual change to an object (beyond just moving, cleaning, or soiling it) persists only 1 hour.

Protection from Arrows/Bullets
Abjuration
Level: Mage 2; Components: V, S, F; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 10 minutes/level or until discharged; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The warded creature gains resistance to ranged weapons that fire arrows, bullets, or crossbow bolts. The subject gains damage reduction 10/+1 against those ranged weapons. The damage reduction increases with the caster level to 10/+2 at 5th and 10/+3 at 10th. Once the spell has prevented a total of 10 points of damage per caster level (maximum 100 points), it is discharged.

Raise Dead
Conjuration (Healing)
Level: Acolyte 5; Components: V, S, M, DF; Casting Time: 1 minute; Range: Touch; Target: Dead creature touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: None (see text); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The divine spellcaster restores life to a deceased creature. The caster can raise creatures who have been dead up to one day per caster level. 
Raise dead cures hit point damage up to a total of 1 hit point per Hit Die. Any ability scores damaged to 0 are raised to 1. Normal poison and normal disease are cured in the process of raising the subject, but magical diseases and curses are not undone. While the spell closes mortal wounds and repairs lethal damage of most kinds, the body of the creature to be raised must be whole. Otherwise, missing parts are still missing when the creature is brought back to life. None of the dead creature’s equipment or possessions are affected in any way by this spell.
A creature who has been turned into an undead creature can’t be raised by this spell. Constructs, elementals, outsiders, and undead creatures can’t be raised. The spell cannot bring back a creature who has died of old age.
The subject of the spell loses one level when it is raised, just as if it had lost a level to an energy-draining creature. This level loss cannot be repaired by any spell. If the subject is 1st level, it loses 1 point of Constitution instead. A character who died with spells prepared has a 50% chance of losing any given spell upon being raised, in addition to losing spell slots for losing a level. A spellcasting creature that doesn’t prepare spells has a 50% chance of losing any spell he or she has prepared but not yet cast, in addition to losing spell slots for losing a level.
Material Component: Purchase DC 26.

Ray of Fatigue
Necromancy
Level: Mage 1; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Effect: Ray; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: No; Spell Resistance: Yes
The caster must succeed at a ranged touch attack with the ray to strike a target. The subject is immediately fatigued for the spell’s duration. A fatigued character suffers a –2 penalty to Strength and Dexterity and can’t run or charge. This spell has no effect on a creature who is already fatigued.

Read Magic
Universal
Level: Acolyte 0, Mage 0; Components: V, S, F; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Personal; Target: You; Duration: 10 minutes/level
This spell allows the caster to read magical inscriptions on objects that would otherwise be unintelligible. This deciphering does not invoke the magic contained in the writing. Furthermore, once the spell is cast and the caster has read the magical inscription, he or she is thereafter able to read that particular writing without recourse to the use of read magic. The caster can read at the rate of one page (250 words) per minute.

Remove Curse
Abjuration
Level: Acolyte 3, Mage 4; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature or item touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
Remove curse instantaneously removes any curses on a creature. Certain special curses may not be countered by this spell or may be countered only by a caster of a certain level or higher.
Remove curse counters bestow curse.

Remove Disease
Conjuration (Healing)
Level: Acolyte 3; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
Remove disease cures all treatable diseases afflicting the subject. It does not rid the subject of a disease for which no cure exists. Since the spell’s duration is instantaneous, it does not prevent reinfection after a new exposure to the same disease at a later date.

Remove Fear
Abjuration
Level: Acolyte 1; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Targets: One creature plus one additional creature/four levels, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; Duration: 10 minutes (see text); Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The caster grants the target a +4 morale bonus against fear effects for 10 minutes. If the subject is suffering from a fear effect when receiving the spell, it gets a new save with a +4 morale bonus.
Remove fear counters and dispels cause fear.

Remove Paralysis
Conjuration (Healing)
Level: Acolyte 2; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Targets: Up to four creatures, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The caster can free one or more creatures from the effects of any temporary paralysis or related magic, including a hold spell or a slow spell. If the spell is cast on one creature, the paralysis is negated. If cast on two creatures, each receives another save with a +4 resistance bonus against the effect that afflicts it. If cast on three or four creatures, each receives another save with a +2 resistance bonus.
The spell does not restore ability scores reduced by penalties, damage, or loss.

Resist Energy
Abjuration
Level: Acolyte 2, Mage 2; Components: V, S, DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 10 minutes/level; Saving Throw: Fortitude negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
This abjuration grants a creature limited protection to damage from whichever one of five energy types the caster selects: acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic/concussion. The creature gains energy resistance 10 against the energy type chosen, meaning that each time the creature is subjected to such damage (whether from a natural or magical source), that damage is reduced by 10 points before being applied to the creature’s hit points. The value of the energy resistance granted increases by 5 points for every three caster levels above 3rd. The spell protects the recipient’s equipment as well. 
Resist energy absorbs only damage. The character could still suffer unfortunate side effects.

Resistance
Abjuration
Level: Acolyte 0, Mage 0; Components: V, S, M/DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 1 minute; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The subject is granted a +1 resistance bonus on saving throws.

Restoration
Conjuration (Healing)
Level: Acolyte 4; Components: V, S. M; Casting Time: 3 rounds; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
Restoration cures all temporary ability damage and restores all points permanently drained from a single ability score (caster’s choice if more than one score is drained). This spell also dispels negative levels and restores one experience level to a creature who has had a level drained. The drained level is restored only if the time since the creature lost the level is equal to or less than one day per caster level.
Restoration does not restore level loss or Constitution point loss as a result of being raised from the dead.
Material Component: Purchase DC 20.

Searing Light
Evocation
Level: Acolyte 3; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Effect: Ray; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: Yes
The caster must succeed at a ranged touch attack to strike his or her target. A creature struck by this ray of light takes 1d8 points of damage per two caster levels (maximum 5d8). Undead creatures take 1d6 points of damage per caster level (maximum 10d6), and undead creatures particularly vulnerable to sunlight take 1d8 points of damage per caster level (maximum 10d8). Constructs and inanimate objects take only 1d6 points of damage per two caster levels (maximum 5d6).

See Invisibility
Divination
Level: Mage 2; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Area: Cone; Duration: 10 minutes/level (D); Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
The caster sees any objects or beings that are invisible as if they were normally visible.
The spell does not reveal the method used to obtain invisibility. It does not reveal illusions or enable the caster to see through opaque objects. It does not reveal creatures who are simply hiding, concealed, or otherwise hard to see.
Material Components: Purchase DC 7.

Shatter
Evocation [Sonic]
Level: Acolyte 2; Components: V, S, M/DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Area: 5-ft. radius spread, or one solid object or crystalline creature; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Will negates (object) or Fortitude half (see text); Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
Used as an area attack, shatter destroys nonmagical objects of crystal, glass, porcelain, or ceramic, such as vials, bottles, flasks, jugs, windows, mirrors, and so forth. All such objects within a 5-foot radius of the point of origin are smashed into dozens of pieces by the spell. Objects weighing more than 1 pound per caster level are not affected, but all other objects of the appropriate composition are shattered.
Alternatively, the caster can target this spell against a single solid object, regardless of composition, weighing up to 10 pounds per caster level.
Targeted against a crystalline creature (of any weight), shatter deals 1d6 points of sonic damage per caster level (maximum 10d6), with a Fortitude save for half damage.

Shield
Abjuration [Force]
Level: Mage 1; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Personal; Target: You; Duration: 1 minute/level (D)
Shield creates an invisible, mobile disk of force that hovers in front of the caster. It negates magic missile attacks directed at the caster. The disk also intercepts attacks, providing a +4 bonus to Defense. The shield carries no armor penalty or arcane spell failure chance.

Shield of Faith
Abjuration
Level: Acolyte 1; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
This spell creates a shimmering, magical field around the touched creature that averts attacks. The spell grants the subject a +2 deflection bonus, with an additional +1 to the bonus at 6th caster level.

Shout
Evocation [Sonic]
Level: Mage 4; Components: V; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Area: Cone; Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: Fortitude partial (see text) (object); Spell Resistance: Yes (object)
The caster emits an ear-splitting yell that deafens and damages creatures in its path. Any creature within the area is deafened for 2d6 rounds and takes 2d6 points of damage. A successful save negates the deafness and reduces the damage by half. Any exposed brittle or crystalline object takes 1d6 points of damage per caster level. Creatures holding fragile objects can negate damage to them with successful Reflex saves.
A deafened character, in addition to the obvious effects, suffers a –4 penalty on initiative checks, automatically fails Listen checks, and has a 20% chance to miscast and lose any spell with a verbal component that he or she tries to cast.
The shout spell cannot penetrate the spell silence.

Silence
Illusion
Level: Acolyte 2; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); Area: 15-ft.-radius emanation centered on a creature, object, or point in space; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: Will negates or none (object); Spell Resistance: Yes or no (object)
Upon the casting of this spell, complete silence prevails in the affected area. All sound is stopped: Conversation is impossible, spells with verbal components cannot be cast, and no noise whatsoever issues from, enters, or passes through the area. The spell can be cast on a point in space, but the effect is stationary unless cast on a mobile object. The spell can be centered on a creature, and the effect then radiates from the creature and moves as it moves. An unwilling creature can attempt a Will save to negate the spell and can use spell resistance, if any. Items in a creature’s possession or magic items that emit sound receive saves and spell resistance, but unattended objects and points in space do not. This spell provides a defense against sonic or language-based attacks.

Sleep
Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
Level: Mage 1; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Area: Several living creatures within a 15-ft.-radius burst; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: Will negates; Spell Resistance: Yes
A sleep spell causes a comatose slumber to come upon one or more creatures. Roll 2d4 to determine how many total HD of creatures can be affected. Creatures with the fewest HD are affected first. Among creatures with equal HD, those who are closest to the spell’s point of origin are affected first. No creature with 5 or more HD is affected, and HD that are not sufficient to affect a creature are wasted.
Sleeping creatures are helpless. Slapping or wounding awakens affected creatures, but normal noise does not. Awakening a creature is a move action.
Sleep does not affect unconscious creatures, constructs, or undead creatures.
Note: Additional hit points given along with a creature’s Hit Dice are irrelevant for determining how many Hit Dice a creature has.

Slow
Transmutation
Level: Mage 3; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Targets: One creature/level, no two of which can be more than 30 ft. apart; Duration: 1 round/level; Saving Throw: Will negates; Spell Resistance: Yes
Affected creatures move and attack at a drastically slowed rate. Slowed creatures can take only a single move action or attack action each turn, but not both (nor may they take full-round actions). Additionally, they suffer –2 penalties to Defense, melee attack rolls, melee damage rolls, and Reflex saves. Slowed creatures jump half as far as normal.
Slow counters and dispels haste but does not otherwise affect magically speeded or slowed creatures.

Spider Climb
Transmutation
Level: Acolyte 2, Mage 2; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 10 minutes/level; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The subject can climb and travel on vertical surfaces or even traverse ceilings. The affected creature must have its hands free to climb in this manner. The subject gains a climb speed of 20 feet and need not make Climb checks to scale a surface.

Status
Divination
Level: Acolyte 3; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Targets: One creature touched/three levels; Duration: 1 hour/level; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
Status allows a divine caster to mentally monitor the relative positions and general condition of his or her companions. The caster is aware of direction and distance to the creatures and their status: unharmed, wounded, disabled, staggered, unconscious, dying, dead, and so forth. Once the spell has been cast upon the subjects, the distance between them and the caster does not affect the spell.

Stoneskin
Abjuration
Level: Mage 4; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 10 minutes/level or until discharged; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The subject gains damage reduction 10/— against physical attacks. Once the spell has prevented a total of 10 points of damage per caster level, it is discharged.
Material Components: Purchase DC 23.

Telekinesis
Transmutation
Level: Mage 5; Components: V, S; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level); Target or Targets: See text; Duration: Concentration (up to 1 round/level) or instantaneous (see text); Saving Throw: Will negates (object) (see text); Spell Resistance: Yes (object) (see text)
The caster can move objects or creatures by concentrating on them. Depending on the version selected, the spell can provide either a gentle, sustained force or a single short, violent thrust.
Sustained Force: A sustained force moves a creature or object weighing up to 25 pounds per caster level up to 20 feet per round. A creature can negate the effect against itself or against an object it possesses with a successful Will save or with spell resistance.
This version of the spell lasts up to 1 round per caster level, but it ends if the caster ceases concentration. The weight can be moved vertically, horizontally, or both. An object cannot be moved beyond the caster’s range. The spell ends if the object is forced beyond the range. If the caster ceases concentration for any reason, the object falls or stops.
An object can be telekinetically manipulated as if with one hand, if the force required is within the weight limitation. 
Violent Thrust: Alternatively, the spell energy can be expended in a single round. The caster can hurl one or more objects or creatures that are within range and all within 10 feet of each other toward any target within 10 feet/level of all the objects. The caster can hurl up to a total weight of 25 pounds per caster level.
The caster must succeed at attack rolls (one per creature or object thrown) to hit the target with the items, using his or her base attack bonus + Intelligence modifier. Weapons deal their normal damage (with no Strength bonus). Other objects cause damage ranging from 1 point per 25 pounds (for less dangerous objects) to 1d6 points of damage per 25 pounds (for hard, dense objects).
Creatures who fall within the weight capacity of the spell can be hurled, but they are allowed Will saves to negate the effect, as are those whose held possessions are targeted by the spell. If a telekinesed creature is hurled against a solid surface, it takes damage as if it had fallen 10 feet.

Tongues
Divination
Level: Acolyte 4, Mage 3; Components: V, M/DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 10 minutes/level; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: No
This spell grants the creature touched the ability to speak and understand the language of any intelligent creature, whether it is a species language or a regional dialect.  Tongues does not enable the subject to speak with creatures who don’t speak. The subject can make him or herself understood as far as her voice carries. This spell does not predispose any creature addressed toward the subject in any way.

True Seeing
Divination
Level: Acolyte 5; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The caster confers on the subject the ability to see all things as they actually are. The subject sees through normal and magical darkness, notices secret doors hidden by magic or psionics, sees invisible creatures or objects normally, sees through illusions, and sees the true form of changed or transmuted things. The range of true seeing conferred is 120 feet.
True seeing, however, does not penetrate solid objects. It in no way confers X-ray vision or its equivalent. It does not cancel concealment, including that caused by fog and the like. True seeing does not help the viewer see through mundane disguises, spot creatures who are simply hiding, or notice secret panels hidden by mundane means. The effects cannot be combined with other spells and powers.
Material Component: Purchase DC 16.

True Strike
Divination
Level: Mage 1; Components: V, F; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Personal; Target: You; Duration: See text
The caster’s next single attack roll (if it is made before the end of the next round) gains a +20 insight bonus. Additionally, the caster is not affected by the miss chance that applies to attacks against a concealed target.

Virtue
Transmutation
Level: Acolyte 0; Components: V, S, DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Creature touched; Duration: 1 minute; Saving Throw: Yes (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The subject gains 1 temporary hit point.

Wall of Fire
Evocation [Fire]
Level: Mage 4; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Effect: Opaque sheet of flame up to 20 ft. long/caster level or a ring of fire with a radius of up to 5 ft./two caster levels; either form 20 ft. high; Duration: Concentration + 1 round/level; Saving Throw: See text; Spell Resistance: Yes
An immobile curtain of fire springs into existence. One side of the wall, selected by the caster, sends forth waves of heat, dealing 2d4 points of fire damage to creatures within 10 feet and 1d4 points of fire damage to those past 10 feet but within 20 feet. The wall deals this damage when it appears and each round that a creature enters or remains in the area. In addition, the wall deals 2d6 points of fire damage +1 point of fire damage per caster level to any creature passing through it. The wall deals double damage to undead creatures.
If the caster evokes the wall so that it appears where creatures are, each creature takes damage as if passing through the wall. Each such creature can avoid the wall by making a successful Reflex save. (If the creature ends up on the hot side of the wall, it takes 2d4 points of damage, as normal.)
If any 5-foot length of wall takes 20 points of cold damage or more in 1 round, that length goes out. (Do not divide cold damage by 4, as normal for objects.)

Wall of Force
Evocation [Force]
Level: Mage 5; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Effect: Wall whose area is up to one 10-ft. square/level or a sphere or hemisphere with a radius of up to 1 ft./level; Duration: 1 minute/level (D); Saving Throw: None; Spell Resistance: No
A wall of force spell creates an invisible wall of force. The wall of force cannot move, it is immune to damage of all kinds, and it is unaffected by dispel magic. Spells, breath weapons, and flamethrowers cannot pass through the wall in either direction, although dimension door can bypass the barrier. Gaze attacks can operate through the wall of force.
The caster can form the wall into a flat, vertical plane whose area is up to one 10-foot square per level, or into a sphere or hemisphere with a radius of up to 1 foot per level.
The wall of force must be continuous and unbroken when formed. If its surface is broken by any object or creature, the spell fails.

Wall of Ice
Evocation [Cold]
Level: Mage 4; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Effect: Anchored plane of ice, up to one 10-ft. square/level, or hemisphere of ice with a radius of up to 3 ft. + 1 ft./level; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: See text; Spell Resistance: Yes
This spell creates an anchored plane of ice or a hemisphere of ice, depending on the version selected. A wall of ice cannot form in an area occupied by physical objects or creatures. Its surface must be smooth and unbroken when created. Fire, including fire spells, can melt a wall of ice. Fire deals full damage to the wall (instead of the normal half damage suffered by objects). Suddenly melting the wall of ice (by reducing it to 0 hit points in a single attack) creates a 10-foot-radius cloud of fog that lasts for 10 minutes. Objects and creatures within the area are treated as if they had one-half concealment (20% miss chance) with respect to one another.
Ice Plane: A sheet of strong, hard ice appears. The wall is 1 inch thick per caster level. It covers up to a 10-foot-square area per caster levels. The plane can be oriented in any fashion as long as it is anchored. A vertical wall need only be anchored on the floor, while a horizontal or slanting wall must be anchored on two opposite sides.
Each 10-foot square of wall has 3 hit points per inch of thickness. Creatures can hit the wall automatically. A section of wall whose hit points drop to 0 is breached. If a creature tries to break through the wall with a single attack, the DC for the Strength check is 15 + caster level.
Even when the ice has been broken through, a sheet of frigid air remains. Any creature stepping through it takes 1d6 points of cold damage +1 point per caster level.
Hemisphere: The wall takes the form of a hemisphere whose maximum radius is 3 feet +1 foot per caster level.  It is as hard to break through as the ice plane form, but it does not deal damage to those who go through a breach.
The caster can create the hemisphere so that it traps one or more creatures, though these creatures can avoid being trapped by the hemisphere by making successful Reflex saves.

Wall of Iron
Conjuration (Creation)
Level: Mage 5; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Effect: Iron wall whose area is up to one 5-ft. square/level (see text); Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: See text; Spell Resistance: No
The caster causes a flat, vertical iron wall to spring into being. This wall inserts itself into any surrounding nonliving material if its area is sufficient to do so. The wall cannot be conjured so that it occupies the same space as a creature or another object. It must always be a flat plane, though the caster can shape its edges to fit the available space.
The wall of iron is 1 inch thick per four caster levels. The caster can double the wall’s area by halving its thickness. Each 5-foot square of the wall has 30 hit points per inch of thickness and hardness 10. A section of wall whose hit points drop to 0 is breached. If a creature tries to break through the wall with a single attack, the DC for the Strength check is 25 + 2 per inch of thickness.
If the caster desires, the wall can be created vertically resting on a flat surface but not attached to the surface so that it can be tipped over to fall on and crush creatures beneath it. The wall is 50% likely to tip in either direction if left unpushed. Creatures can push the wall in one direction rather than letting it fall randomly. A creature must succeed at a Strength check (DC 40) to push the wall over. Creatures with room to flee the falling wall may do so by making successful Reflex saves. Large and smaller creatures who fail take 10d6 points of damage. The wall cannot crush Huge and larger creatures.
Like any iron wall, this wall is subject to rust, perforation, and other natural phenomena.
Material Component: Purchase DC 18.

Wall of Stone
Conjuration (Creation)
Level: Acolyte 5, Mage 5; Components: V, S, M/DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Effect: Stone wall whose area is up to one 5-ft. square/level (S); Duration: Instantaneous; Saving Throw: See text; Spell Resistance: No
This spell creates a wall of rock that merges into adjoining rock surfaces.  The wall of stone is 1 inch thick per four caster levels and composed of up to one 5-foot square per level. You can double the wall’s area by halving its thickness. The wall cannot be conjured so that it occupies the same space as a creature or another object.
A wall of stone can be created in almost any shape the caster desires. The wall created need not be vertical, nor rest upon any firm foundation; however, it must merge with and be solidly supported by existing stone. If used to bridge a chasm, if the span is more than 20 feet, the wall must be arched and buttressed. This requirement reduces the spell’s area by half. 
Like any other stone wall, this one can be destroyed by explosives or brought down by bludgeoning or piercing weapons. Each 5-foot square has 15 hit points per inch of thickness and hardness 8. A section of wall whose hit points drop to 0 is breached. If a creature tries to break through the wall with a single attack, the DC for the Strength check is 20 + 2 per inch of thickness.
It is possible to trap mobile opponents within or under a wall of stone, provided the wall is shaped so it can hold the creatures. Creatures avoid entrapment with successful Reflex saves.

Water Breathing
Transmutation
Level: Acolyte 3, Mage 3; Components: V, S, M/DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Touch; Target: Living creatures touched; Duration: 2 hours/level (see text); Saving Throw: Will negates (harmless); Spell Resistance: Yes (harmless)
The transmuted creatures can breathe water freely. Divide the duration evenly among all the creatures touched. The spell does not make creatures unable to breathe air.

Web
Conjuration (Creation)
Level: Mage 2; Components: V, S, M; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Medium (100 ft. + 10 ft./level); Effect: Webs in a 20-ft.-radius spread; Duration: 10 minutes/_level; Saving Throw: Reflex negates (see text); Spell Resistance: Yes
The web spell creates a many-layered mass of strong, sticky strands. These strands trap those caught in them.  These masses must be anchored to two or more solid and diametrically opposed points—floor and ceiling, opposite walls, and so forth—or else the web collapses upon itself and disappears. Creatures caught within a web or simply touching its strands become entangled among the gluey fibers.
An entangled creature takes a –2 penalty on attack rolls, takes a –4 penalty to effective Dexterity, and can’t move. An entangled character who attempts to cast a spell must make a Concentration check (DC 15) or lose the spell.
Anyone in the effect’s area when the spell is cast must make a Reflex save. If this save succeeds, the creature is not stuck in the webs and is free to act, though moving is slow and may cause it to become stuck (see below). If the save fails, the creature is stuck. A stuck creature can break loose by spending 1 round and succeeding on a Strength check (DC 20) or an Escape Artist check (DC 25). Once loose (either by making the initial Reflex save or a later Strength check or Escape Artist check), a creature may progress through the web very slowly. Each round devoted to moving allows the creature to make a new Strength check or Escape Artist check. The creature moves 5 feet for each full 5 points by which the check result exceeds 10.
The web provides one-quarter cover for every 5 feet of the substance between the character and an opponent—one-half cover for 10 feet of web, three-quarters for 15 feet, and total cover for 20 feet or more.
The strands of a web spell are flammable. Any fire can set them alight and burn away 5 square feet in 1 round. All creatures within flaming webs take 2d4 points of damage from the flames.

Zone of Truth
Enchantment [Mind-Affecting]
Level: Acolyte 2; Components: V, S, DF; Casting Time: Attack action; Range: Close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels); Area: 5-ft.-radius/level emanation; Duration: 1 minute/level; Saving Throw: Will negates; Spell Resistance: Yes
Creatures within the emanation area (or those who enter it) can’t speak any deliberate and intentional lies. Creatures are allowed a save to avoid the effects when the spell is cast or when they first enter the emanation area. Affected creatures are aware of this enchantment. Creatures who leave the area are free to speak as they choose.
